All over the world rural people are the ones who are most ignored. Much of the resources that are used by the industries are extracted from places where the rural people live. However, it does not matter to the industrialists wether anyone lives there or not. They just slash down the trees, bomb down the mountains, turn forests into ghost-tows(mine fields) to dig out metals, use up all the water; pollute it, and sweep out the animals. This leaves the rural people with nothing other than the same nothing. They are not valued at all even thought they have been living there for generations. Left out with no other means of living, the rural people are forced to move out to the cities, for working in the industies and living in very unhealthy conditions in the slums which circle around the city. This way the industries have a constant supply of workers, which is an added benefit to those guys. There the rural people have to now be exposed to various toxins.

What is resource degradation?
We use up various resources everyday, but dont bother think that they are not being properly used. Trees are being cut down at an astonishing rate 200,000 per day,globally. And who bothers to plant them back. Petroluem is being sucked up at tremendous rates all over the world, and much of it has been used up already. Most of the coal has already been mined out with only a few still left out; And still the industries are worried why that bit is still left and not being put to use. They are probably not able to realise that it takes millions of years to form coal and petroleum. Once finish it all up then it won't be possible to get it back any more until a million yers later. Who knows, there may be several better ways of using coal  and petroleum, than using it as a fuel. Petroleum chemicals often form the base for production of any organic chemical. All petroleum chemicals have a carbon skeleton which is used by organic chemists and organic product indistries to produce different organic chemicals. everytime an organic chemist earns a nobel prize due to discovery of organic chemicals, its starting lies in 