[slide 1]
Hello Sir and friends,
Today i will be speaking on the topic []Education System in India:
It's functions, drawbacks and possible solutions. []
Next Slide.




[slide 2]
what is the importance of Education []
education plays a vital role in our personal growth and social development
for all of us. 
our behaviour, our daily habits, our dreams are all a reflection of our education.
they way we interact and socialize with others also depends upon eduction.
ex- if i have knowledge of computers, then i will be interested in talking to other
people about computers. similary, if someone is good at studies, then he would be interested
in talking about studies. []then
it makes us capable of serving the people for common good []



[slide 3]
In the 'Sravana' stage of education, students received 'shrutis' knowledge, which was passed orally from one generation
to another. The second stage was 'Manana' which means that pupils had to think themselves about what they have heard. 
They have to make their own inferences and assimilate the lesson taught by their teacher into the life. The third stage 
'Nidhyasana' means complete comprehension of truth and its use in the life. 

Few of the most important universities of India in the ancient times were Taxila, Vikramshila and Nalanda.

Nalanda was the highest learning center not just of India but also of the entire South Asia. Students from foreign 
countries like China, Japan, Korea used to come here for higher studies. It had around 10,000 students and teachers 
on its roll cards. The University had eight colleges. And one of the colleges had four-storied building. It was one of 
the earliest examples of residential cum learning complex. 

India had several great minds at work, which contributed in every aspect of life. The concept of zero, decimal and 
Pythagoras Theorem were all developed here. 

As India progressed from ancient to medieval its education system deteriorated. Various factors were responsible 
for the degradation of this most efficient and most ancient education system of the world.



[slide 4-7]
just speak whats written generate ideas yourself
The UNESCO’s International Institute of Educational Planning study on corruption in education released recently says that 25%
teacher absenteeism in India is among the highest in the world, second only after Uganda that has a higher rate. The global 
average of teacher absenteeism is about 20%.

Teacher absenteeism does not just affect quality of education; it is also a huge drain on resources resulting in the wastage 
of 22.5% of education funds in India the study said. Politics in teacher appointments and transfers is a major reason for 
teacher absenteeism according to a professor at National University for Education Planning and Administration.

In Bihar two of every five teachers were reported absent.
Teachers also believe highly in private tutoring a practice identified by UNESCO as unethical. It does not complement learning 
at school and leads to corruption the report said. The practice of ghost teachers and involvement of teachers in mismanagement 
of schools were other gray areas identified in the Indian education system.

Another indictment of the sorry state of Indian education was the view held by students that cheating in examinations is their 
traditional right. In India universities cheating is now well-established. The fees for manipulating entrance tests ranges 
between $ 80 to $ 20,000 for popular programmes such as computer science, medicine and engineering the report said. 



[slide 8]
just speak whats written generate ideas yourself



[slide 9]
just speak whats written generate ideas yourself
The Act makes it mandatory for every child between the ages of 6-14 to be provided for education by 
the State. This means that such child does not have to pay a single penny as regards books, uniforms 
etc… too. Any time of the academic year, a child can go to a school and demand that this right be 
respected. Private education institutions have to reserve 25% of their seats starting from class I 
in 2011 to disadvantaged students. Strict criteria for the qualification of teachers. There is a 
requirement of a teacher student ration of 1:30 at each of these schools that ought to be met within a 
given time frame. The schools need to have certain minimum facilities like adequate teachers, 
playground and infrastructure. The government will evolve some mechanism to help marginalised schools 
comply with the provisions of the Act. There is anew concept of ‘neighbourhood schools’ that has been 
devised. This is similar to the model in the United States. This would imply that the state government 
and local authorities will establish primary schools within walking distance of one km of the 
neighbourhood. In case of children for Class VI to VIII, the school should be within a walking distance 
of three km of the neighbourhood. Unaided and private schools shall ensure that children from weaker 
sections and disadvantaged groups shall not be segregated from the other children in the classrooms nor 
shall their classes be held at places and timings different from the classes held for the other children.



[slide 10]
just speak whats written generate ideas yourself



[slide 11]
i think, the best solution of these would be that we discuss and act
on the improvement of our education system.



[slide 12]
thanks a lot, everyone.
please be thoughtful and continue to think on this topic.
if we discuss and act accordingly in this direction, then we can
surely make some progress for our education system.
and, who knows, if we improve our eduction system, then people who
become politicians will no be interested in corruption but always
be seeking for the development of or country.

sir, i have one question::
sir, how does a child percieve education and how can it be improved?
i mean to say, how should knwledge be presented to a child that he
would love to have it. what inspires learning in a child?

[listen, get idea for project]

thank you sir, and thanks a lot everyone.



